# Welcome to the doomsday method
Here you can learn how to tell the day of the week from a given date. This was a personal weekend project (turned sometimes project lol).
I was learning the mental doomsday method and decided it was a good idea to use it to freshen up my python, UI design and problem solving skills. This project was not generated by AI. (only used for syntax,  clarifications, and looking up libraries), so if there were any better ways of doing what I did, I am sorry and I will appreciate any feedback.

*DISCLAIMER*: The doomsday method was devised by Jhon Conway in 1973 to exploit the patterns in the gregorian calendar, I did not design it in any way whatsoever, I just programmed it into python for funsies after watching 2 videos from youtube. Also it doesn't take into account the date skip in 1582 that skipped 10 days to adjust from the julian calendar into the gregorian calendar.

I found out about this method thanks to a Mike Boyd video I watched in 2022 and actually learnt how to do it, but after a month of not doing it you simply lose the skill. The point of this project is to dont lose it by having a "trainer" of some sort. 2 weeks ago i got bored on a weekend and decided to build the first 2 .py script mentioned on the 'How to use' section.

Credit to the youtube videos that taught me this:

*Mike Boyd:*
I can tell you what day of the week you were born on (without looking it up) / December 1st, 2021

https://youtu.be/eSpW4I5moiA?si=FKUmcfag7hA9WWMm

*Numberphile:*
The Doomsday Algorithm - Numberphile / October 31st, 2021

https://youtu.be/z2x3SSBVGJU?si=iksIWwChsnQtOij_


# How to use
In the scripts folder you will find 2 python scripts I wrote at first and run on terminal only. 'doomsday.py' is the first script I made for just figuring out how to program the doomsday method into python, it will ask you for a date, and it will tell you what day of the week it was regardless of how long ago or how long into the future it will be the date given.

The 'doomsday_trainer.py' was just a copy and paste of the first one with modifications, added a while loop keep asking until the user types "exit", also added a random date generator and instead of solving it for the user, it prompts the user with the question "What day was or will be on x date?", when the user answers it will tell you the time it took for you to answer it, with a congratulations message, or an insult and tell you what was the answer. This second script also runs on terminal and the range of the years of the date generated is hardcoded (you can change it by modifying the ```year = np.random.randint(1000,2201)``` (line 23).

I am currently working on a final version, an executable file that you can open, with a UI, set the year range, and start practicing until you just dont want to anymore.

# How it works
TBD (will add explanation later into the project to learn how to do .md files)
